To run TopPIC suite, a computer with at least 4 GB memory and a 64-bit Linux or Windows operating system is required. TopPIC provides a command line interface and a graphical user interface (GUI) for both Linux and Windows users.

# TopPIC

## Input

* A protein database file in the FASTA format
* A mass spectrum data file in the msalign format
* A text file to specify fixed PTMs (optional)
* A text file containing MS1 feature information (optional)
* A text file to specify PTMs for the characterization of mass shifts (optional)

## Output

TopPIC outputs two tab delimited text files and a collection of html files for identified proteoforms. For example, when the input mass spectrum data file is spectra_ms2.msalign, the output includes:

* __spectra_ms2.OUTPUT_TABLE__: a tab delimited text file containing a list of identified proteoform spectrum-matches at the spectrum level.
* __spectra_ms2.FORM_OUTPUT_TABLE__: a tab delimited text file containing a list of identified proteoform spectrum-matches at the proteoform level.
* __spectra_ms2_prsm_cutoff_html__: a folder containing html files for the annotation of identified proteoform spectrum-matches using the spectrum level E-value or FDR cutoff.
* __spectra_ms2_proteoform_cutoff_html__: a folder containing html files for the annotation of identified proteoform spectrum-matches using the proteoform level E-value or FDR cutoff.

## Command line usage

To run TopPIC, open a console and run the following command.
```
toppic [options] database-file-name spectrum-file-name
```
Options

```
-h [ --help ]
```
Print the help message.

```
-a [ --activation ] <CID|HCD|ETD|UVPD|FILE>.
```
Fragmentation method of tandem mass spectra. When FILE is used, fragmentation methods of spectra are given in the input spectral data file. Default value: FILE.

```
-f [ --fixed-mod ] <C57|C58|a fixed modification file>.
```
Fixed modifications. Three available options: C57, C58, or the name of a text file containing the information of fixed modifications. When C57 is selected, carbamidomethylation on cysteine is the only fixed modification. When C58 is selected, carboxymethylation on cysteine is the only fixed modification.

```
-n [ --n-terminal-form ] <a list of allowed N-terminal forms>.
```
N-terminal forms of proteins. Four N-terminal forms can be selected: NONE, NME, NME_ACETYLATION, and M_ACETYLATION. NONE stands for no modifications, NME for N-terminal methionine excision, NME_ACETYLATION for N-terminal acetylation after the initiator methionine is removed, and M_ACETYLATION for N-terminal methionine acetylation. When multiple forms are allowed, they are separated by commas. Default value: NONE,NME,NME_ACETYLATION,M_ACETYLATION

```
-d [ --decoy ]
```
Use a decoy protein database to estimate false discovery rates.

```
-e [ --error-tolerance ] <a positive integer>.
```
Error tolerance for precursor and fragment masses in PPM. Default value: 15.

```
-m [ --max-shift ]
```
Maximum value of the mass shift (in Dalton) of an unexpected modification. Default value: 500.

```
-M [ --min-shift ]
```
Minimum value of the mass shift (in Dalton) of an unexpected modification. Default value: -500.

```
-p [ --num-shift ] <0|1|2>.
```
Maximum number of unexpected modifications in a proteoform spectrum-match. Default value: 1.

```
-t [ --spectrum-cutoff-type ] <EVALUE|FDR>.
```
Spectrum-level cutoff type for filtering identified proteoform spectrum-matches. Default value: EVALUE.

```
-v [ --spectrum-cutoff-value ] <a positive number>.
```
Spectrum-level cutoff value for filtering identified proteoform spectrum-matches. Default value: 0.01.

```
-T [ --proteoform-cutoff-type ] <EVALUE|FDR>.
```
Proteoform-level cutoff type for filtering identified proteoform spectrum-matches. Default value: EVALUE.

```
-V [ --proteoform-cutoff-value ] <a positive number>.
```
Proteoform-level cutoff value for filtering identified proteoform spectrum-matches. Default value: 0.01.

```
-g [ --generating-function ]
```
Use the generating function approach to compute p-values and E-values.

```
-r [ --num-combined-spectra ] <a positive integer>.
```
Number of combined spectra. The parameter is set as 2 (or 3) for combining spectral pairs (or triplets) generated by the alternating fragmentation mode. Default value: 1

```
-i [ --mod-file-name ] <a common modification file>.
```
Specify a text file containing the information of common PTMs for characterization of PTMs in proteoform spectrum-matches.

```
-s [ --miscore-threshold ] <a positive number between 0 and 1>.
```
Score threshold (modification identification score) for filtering results of PTM characterization. Default value: 0.45.

```
-u [ --thread-number ] <a positive integer>
```
Number of threads used in the computation. Default value: 1.

```
-x [ --no-topfd-feature ]     
```
No TopFD feature file for proteoform identification.

```
-l [ --skip-list ] <a text file with its path>
```
The scans in this file will be skipped.

```
-o [ --output ] <a filename with its path>
```
The output file name for the combined results. Default: combined.
